That's an absolute record:
Emirate Airlines just announced last week that it
ordered another 130 new long haul aircraft...
... all in all for a bargain price of 20 Billion US Dollars.
This would probably make Emirates the world’s biggest airlines by 2010!
Captain Nathan Hildebrand - an Austrian national - has
contributed to Emirates’ success.
.
Landing in Dubai over 7 years ago, he is now part
of an expat group of Austrians that have succeeded abroad:
Vienna born Nathan Hildebrand is now a resident of Dubai,
the city on the Arabian Golf where dreams still can come true!
In your case Nathan, I think they have come true, no?
Yes, for my family and myself this dream has certainly come true!
At first, it wasn’t easy to warm up to the idea of actually living
in Dubai…
as friends would say: Why move to the desert where you don’t
know anyone?
In the end, the thought of discovering a unique culture,
making new friends, facing new challenges: all convinced me to plunge
right in!
A career plunge that is unstoppable for now, but which is under
constant & strict supervision!
Hence we are here in the simulator today, where you are re-tested
twice a year, correct?
Yes, all airliners around the world need to pass the so called PPC!
The pilot proficiency check is required twice a year…
each test lasting two days, eight hours each day!
So in effect you need to re-qualify yourself on the job every 6 month!
These tests include simulating realistic emergency scenarios...
as realistic as these ventilator sounds we can hear in the background.
That’s correct, the many instruments in the sim can easily overheat
on a long flight
so they require constant cooling. That’s what the vents in the back are for!
Dubai has regulation that also require health checks no matter what
job you’re in?
We have a very large expat community in Dubai.
The percentage of foreigners living here is much higher than that
of the local population.
But surely they are welcome here, as they contribute to the
well-being of the city, right?
Yes, we are very welcome here, it’s actually a very stable and
peaceful coexistence!
But with so many nationalities, there are also strict rules!
So as you mentioned:
If you want to work in Dubai, you need to get a health check first!
This includes an aids test, which needs to be performed every 3 years.
This is necessary for every worker entering the country!
However, not every worker can bring his/her family to the UAE,
as you need to reach a certain salary level!
And as a pilot with a higher salary, you do enjoy a certain
privileged position
as for other workers in Dubai a higher income is required,
i.ex. to bring family to the UAE!
Yes, it is a privileged position. For lower income workers there are
restrictions!
Workers at construction sites or in the tourism industry
usually cannot afford to bring their family members.
With a monthly salary of between 200 and 300 USD, that's hardly
possible!
A minimum of 1000 USD is required to be able to bring family
members to the country.
So most employees work until they can afford to bring their family along.
In your case, adequate accommodation is provided.
You live together with your family in a house with swimming pool?
Yes. I live in a spacious 400 sq.mt. house, with two bedrooms,
two living rooms
two kitchens, a swimming pool a fitness center & 24 hr security.
These housing amenities are part of the package offered
to captains and pilots!
And no taxes for employees? Yes, that’s true! Zero taxes!
How are infrastructure projects like streets & public parks paid for
if there are no taxes collected by the state?
I’m afraid I cannot answer that one! It’s a state secret waiting
to be answered…
Looking back to your past seven years and your newly won friends:
are there any locals among them, or primarily expats like you?
Mostly foreigners I would say! One neighbor is from Samoa,
the other neighbor from Trinidad, one from India, also Chile & Mexico…
It’s actually a very mixed bunch from all around the world!
It’s a very unique experience: I’m still proud to be Austrian
and always happy to visit my beautiful country of birth.
But after 7 years living among so many different nationalities...
I fell more like a cosmopolitan citizen of the world!
The multitude of cultural, ethnic & religious diversities,
really shape you to see the world through completely different eyes!
It really seems to be exciting to live here...
…amongst all these different Nationalities and to be a part of
it all!
Nevertheless Captain, any plans to plot a permanent course back
to Austria anytime soon?
I’m privileged in that I can fly to Vienna at least once in two
months. So I am back often!
But for now, I can’t really say for how much longer this interesting
city will keep me here!
If ever I leave Dubai, it will be to return back to Austria!
Thank you very much for the interview and many great flights
in the future!